Improve transfer learning guide (#2595)
google/flax: docs/guides/transfer_learning.md

+++

> This guide demonstrates various parts of the transfer learning workflow with Flax. Depending on the task, a pretrained model can be used just as a feature extractor or it can be fine-tune along with the entire model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates various parts of the transfer learning workflow with Flax. Depending on the task, a pretrained model can be used just as a feature extractor or it can be fine-tuned as part of a larger model.
```

  return module, variables
```

> Note that `FlaxCLIPVisionModel` itself is not a Flax `Module` which is why we need to do this extra step.

Reviewer: 👍  good idea to add this.

vision_model, vision_model_variables = nn.apply(extract_submodule, clip)(clip_variables)
```

Note that `.clone()` must be used to get an unbounded copy of `vision_model` to avoid leakage as bounded modules contain their variables.

### Creating a classifier

To create a classifier define a new Flax [`Module`](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/flax_basics.html#module-basics) consisting of a `backbone` (the pretrained vision model) and a `head` (the classifier) submodules.

```{code-cell} ipython3
from typing import Callable
import jax.numpy as jnp
import jax

class Classifier(nn.Module):
  num_classes: int
  backbone: nn.Module
  

  @nn.compact
  def __call__(self, x):
    x = self.backbone(x).pooler_output
    x = nn.Dense(
      self.num_classes, name='head', kernel_init=nn.zeros)(x)
    return x
```

> To construct the complete `model`, the `vision_model` Module is passed as the `backbone` to `Classifier`. Having this, the model's `params` can be randomly initialized using fake data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To construct a classifier `model`, the `vision_model` Module is passed as the `backbone` to `Classifier`. Then the model's `params` can be randomly initialized by passing fake data that is used to infer the parameter shapes.
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
num_classes = 3
model = Classifier(num_classes=num_classes, backbone=vision_model)

x = jnp.empty((1, 224, 224, 3))
variables = model.init(jax.random.PRNGKey(1), x)
params = variables['params']
```

> ## Transfer the parameters

Reviewer: Since the section above is also called "Creating ..."

```suggestion
## Transfering the parameters
```

Since `params` are currently random, the pretrained parameters from `vision_model_variables` have to be transfered to the `params` structure at the appropriate location. This can be done by unfreezing `params`, updating the `backbone` parameters, and freezing the `params` again:

```{code-cell} ipython3
from flax.core.frozen_dict import freeze

params = params.unfreeze()
params['backbone'] = vision_model_variables['params']
params = freeze(params)
```

> **Note:** if the models contains other collections, such as `batch_stats`, they have to be transfered as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** if the model contains other variable collections such as `batch_stats`, these have to be transfered as well.
```

## Optimization

> If you need to to train different parts of the model separately, you have two options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to to train different parts of the model separately, you have three options:
```

2. Filter the parameters for `jax.grad`.
3. Use multiple optimizers for different parameters.

> For most situations we will recommend to use multiple optimizers via [Optax](https://optax.readthedocs.io/)'s [`multi_transform`](https://optax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#optax.multi_transform) as its both efficient and can be easily extended to implement many fine-tunning strategies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most situations we recommend using multiple optimizers via [Optax](https://optax.readthedocs.io/)'s [`multi_transform`](https://optax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#optax.multi_transform) as its both efficient and can be easily extended to implement many fine-tunning strategies. 
```

### **optax.multi_transform**

To use `optax.multi_transform` following must be defined:

1. The parameter partitions.
2. A mapping between partitions and their optimizer.
3. A pytree with the same shape as the parameters but its leaves containing the corresponding partition label.

> ## Freeze layers

Reviewer: Do you need a new section here? Seems this is also related to the optimizer and the previous section is very short. I would recommend just removing this heading.

> To freeze layers with `optax.multi_transform` for the model above, the followin setup can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To freeze layers with `optax.multi_transform` for the model above, the following setup can be used:
```

* Define the `trainable` and `frozen` parameter partitions.
* For the `trainable` parameters select the Adam (`optax.adam`) optimizer.
- For the `frozen` parameters select the `optax.set_to_zero` optimizer. This dummy optimizer zeros-out the gradients so no training is done.
- Map parameters to partitions using [`flax.traverse_util.path_aware_map`](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api_reference/flax.traverse_util.html#flax.traverse_util.path_aware_map), mark the leaves from the `backbone` as `frozen`, and the rest as `trainable`.

```{code-cell} ipython3
from flax import traverse_util
import optax

partition_optimizers = {'trainable': optax.adam(5e-3), 'frozen': optax.set_to_zero()}
param_partitions = freeze(traverse_util.path_aware_map(
  lambda path, v: 'frozen' if 'backbone' in path else 'trainable', params))
tx = optax.multi_transform(partition_optimizers, param_partitions)

# visualize a subset of the param_partitions structure
flat = list(traverse_util.flatten_dict(param_partitions).items())
freeze(traverse_util.unflatten_dict(dict(flat[:2] + flat[-2:])))
```

> To implement [differential learning rates](https://blog.slavv.com/differential-learning-rates-59eff5209a4f) the `optax.set_to_zero` can be replaced with any other optimizer, different optimizers and partitioning schemes can be selected depending on the task. For more information on advanced optimizers, refer to Optax's [Combining Optimizers](https://optax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#combining-optimizers) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement [differential learning rates](https://blog.slavv.com/differential-learning-rates-59eff5209a4f), the `optax.set_to_zero` can be replaced with any other optimizer, different optimizers and partitioning schemes can be selected depending on the task. For more information on advanced optimizers, refer to Optax's [Combining Optimizers](https://optax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#combining-optimizers) documentation.
```
